hey everybody welcome back to food
deconstructed on this episode we're
deconstructing the famous dessert apple
pie with this recipe we're actually
gonna make an apple pie grilled cheese
and I think you guys will be very
surprised on how easy this is to make
and I'm very excited I think out of all
of our recipes this one is gonna really
bring the essence of apple pie together
for us
so the first thing we're gonna start off
by doing is actually caramelizing our
slices of Honey Crisp apples here now
I'm just gonna put a little bit of
butter in here about two tablespoons of
butter in my pan weight flat to melt up
a little bit and then I'm gonna throw my
slices I sliced up about two Honeycrisp
apples or so may use a little bit less
since my pan is a little bit smaller but
now the key to caramelizing is just
letting it sit in there for a little bit
and I love caramelizing because it's
actually gonna enhance the flavor of
that Apple for me so once I put that in
the grilled cheese it's gonna be the
cheese that nice sweet apple taste it's
gonna be unbelievable
let that butter melt up a little bit
okay now as that's melted down I'm going
to throw mine apple slices in here now I
tried to get the slices as thin as I
could this way you're not biting into
huge chunks of Apple when you eat your
grilled cheese but you can do again
whatever you like at home if you like
the thicker slices by all means go for
it
so I'm gonna let these cook up and
caramelize let it do its thing I'm not
gonna move them around a whole heck of a
lot it might shift them a little bit to
make sure they don't burn from time to
time
it should take anywhere from two to five
minutes depending on the heat of your
pan and once that's done I'm gonna move
on to making our cinnamon kalabaw do
some butter okay
our apples are getting nice and
caramelized I'm actually gonna turn down
the heat really low to almost shut it
off now we're gonna make this butter I
talked about so this is gonna be a
cinnamon Calvados butter now I'm gonna
use one whole stick of room-temperature
butter reason going to use
room-temperature as this way it actually
blends together a lot easier for me and
I'm gonna use tablespoon of cinnamon
teaspoon of sugar and ounce bar Calvados
liqueur now the calvess liqueur is
actually an apple cider brandy it's a
very old apple cider brandy is actually
the first distillery was back in France
in about 1550 for you can use whatever
liqueur you want so if you want to do
rum if you want to use regular brandy
it's completely up to you I'm just using
this as a kind of a little twist to the
apple pie
it's got apple cider in it so why not
this in blend this together for
ourselves
shouldn't take long to blend at all that
butter is nice and soft and all we're
really putting in there like I said is
to look for the cinnamon and sugar but
give it a little time just to make sure
they all come together for ourselves but
shouldn't take much time at all check on
it real fast
what's great pull these off the pan this
way they don't burn now what we're gonna
do with this is we're gonna bring in
cinnamon bread here move these off you
can see better and we're actually gonna
spread the butter on two separate sides
of this bread because now we're gonna
make our grilled cheese Nene style now
you can see this butter looks great it's
a nice brown color and the mixture of
the butter and the cinnamon and the dark
liqueur it's gonna be great so take
whatever amount you want you can
liberally spread it on I'm gonna do four
pieces here you should be able to make
two sandwiches you just smell that
cinnamon good because we didn't use a
lot of the liqueur I don't want to
overpower the grilled cheese so you're
getting a lot more cinnamon smell than
anything else all right now and bring in
our grill pan like I said before we're
gonna make this panini style now we're
actually gonna put butter on both sides
because I'm gonna want you to taste the
butter when you bite into it but I'm
also gonna want the butter to Brown on
the grill so there's one
and there's two leave these here for our
tops now we're gonna do is we're gonna
start layering first I'm gonna put some
cheese down so this will melt and once
this cheese is down I'm gonna layer with
my slices of caramelized apple here now
I'm using queer cheese and I used about
a half a pound total I'm gonna make a
few extra sandwiches but again when it
comes to cheese you can use as little or
as much as you'd like now let's bring in
some of our apples nice caramelize and
now a little more cheese because this is
a grilled cheese first and foremost get
a little cheese on the grill it's fine
cleans right up it's gonna happen when
you cook it's gonna get a little messy
sometimes
now I'm gonna butter these side as well
of the bread
before I put it on top match up the
sides here
and
and then panini style we're going to
press this down
now we're let that cook or just kind of
enough so the cheese melts through each
side Browns up nice and easy
and we get back we'll cut and eat our
sandwiches all right it looks like our
grilled cheese are just about done
take them off here get that nice golden
brown on each side because we do the
panini style one two and you can just
see that cheese nice and melted along
the edge kind of coming out the sides
great cut into here
alright gonna plate this there you have
it
apple pie grilled cheese panini style
okay
let's taste this sandwich out huh
mmm-hmm I knew it this is definitely the
essence of an apple pot you have
obviously the apple slices in there that
are caramelized so give you that nice
apple pie filling along with the bread
that's been toasted with that butter
that's cinnamon Calvados butter and it
just gives you that nice cinnamony apple
pie crust crunch but then the added
addition of the Gruyere cheese a nice
little savory little punch in there
amazing the sandwich is so good as you
can see was so easy to make you know
hope you try it at home